Youtube topics

1. Over 1 billion users
2. Every minute 300 hours of videos are uploaded on Youtube
3. More than 80% of the audiences are outside US
4. 3.25 billion hours of video watched per month


Types of fraud?
1. Click fraud
2. Driving people out of youtube to another website, via unrelated links to external sights
3. Misleading metadata - tags etc
4. Misleading thumbnails 
5. Using other people's content as their own - Copyright owners can use a system called Content ID to easily identify and manage their content on YouTube. Videos uploaded to YouTube are scanned against a database of files that have been submitted to us by content owners.
	- tags, title, description of the video
	- Using Deep Learning to find if content matches or not ie. video fingerprinting
	- also a digital watermark that is uploaded with a copyright video.
	- audio fingerprinting (finding similarity in audio signals)

Types of spam?
1. Posting unrelated large amounts of untargeted, unwanted, or repetitive content in videos, comments, private messages, or other places on the site. This drives people out of site.
	- in foreign language : look for repeating text across videos by a single user
2.  increases the number of views, likes, comments, or other metric either through the use of automatic systems or by serving up videos to unsuspecting viewers, is against our terms. 
3. Content that which attempts to trick others for their own financial gain.
4. Blackmails and such reports


How to detect?
1. Youtube is a community connecting artists and viewers. and the best way to detect spam/fraud is via taking 'flag this video' content
2. Cluster words and phrases that are most commonly associated with Spam
3. Popular alogrithms : Naive Bayes, C4.5 decision trees, multilayer perceptron

Spam vs inappropriate?
Spam is when the content is there just to attract clicks and does not serve its true nature. Eg. A video marked about dogs can be redirecting to a webpage

Frauds are inappropriate contents which are marked by users. These can be 
	sexual content
	violent content
	Hateful or abusive content
	Harmful dangerous acts...


How does youtube count views?
Views - click to the video with the intention of playing it
1. When views < 300, not much significance is given to HOW the views are generated. Views are counted using the old school 'click on website multiple times' way. So if we refresh our page X times, it is counted as X views.
This is because, the expected value of a video influencing youtube page is 301.
2. When views = 301, the analysts verify the source of these views. The views freeze at 301, till the analysts verify the views. If the majority of views are coming from a small number of computers, they are removed.
3. When views > 301, the algorithm automatically detects and eliminates views from malware and spambots.

To find fake views..
1. Wait time between two views = can be found using expected value of poisson's process.
2. How much of the video is actually getting watched. Only first 10 seconds vs the entire video
3. User cookies

Youtube kids
1. The age filter for youtube kids did not work out. So youtube is currently using handpicked content for their kids website.

Behavioral and case study type questions
How to identify fraud
How to identify fraud and scams even when they are not in your language
Knowledge about Google and its products and how to identify fraud with them

change in youtube monitization
to join the YouTube Partner Program, which is what allows publishers to make money through advertising
- previously it was 10,000 total views
- now it is 1000 subscribers and 4000 total hours of video

------------------
Ask about scope of work


-------------------
Googliness
1. Passion and drive
2. Act like entraprenurs within the team - self starter (coming up with new ideas and measures)
	Instructions not always need to come from higher managements.
	Being self motivated to go beyond just what is required for in the job. eg. in my job as a data engineer, I was motivated to bring data insights within my team, where we as the data team had the power to provide forecasts and results to users.

1. doing the right thing
2. Striving for excellence - don't stop till you do things really really well
3. Keeping an eye on the goals. - remember your end goals
4. Being proactive
5. Going the extra mile : Being self motivated to go beyond just what is required for in the job. eg. in my job as a data engineer, I was motivated to bring data insights within my team, where we as the data team had the power to provide forecasts and results to users.
6. Friendly and approachable