1. What is the core product of visa?
-> Visa's core products include Debit, credit, prepaid and commercial.
   Visa provides the network infrastructure, product support and industry knowledge to help its customers (like banks) to optimize their debit offerings.
   Visa also offers fraud detection
   Visa does not offer credit cards on its own, but rather offer services to banks 

2. What else does Visa do?
-> offer multiple services to its customers like,
		customer segmentation, 
		product design
		customer experience design
	to help financial institutions serve their customers better

3. Visanet?
-> is the basic network infrastructure that visa provides

4. New products
-> Visa checkout -> provides expediated and secure experience to customers (much like digital wallet for online transactions). Security is the biggest concern here
   Visa Direct -> push payment services that allows p2p payments 

5. Why visa?
-> very high impact. Any change that we would make will affect a lot of people.
   you do more than 150 million transactions per day
   more than 20 million users
   23 countries

Clients of Visa
- issuers and acquirers
-  issuers are local banks that provide credit cards in your wallet
- acquires are the banks used by merchants and retailers to that process your purchase transactions.


- issuing bank takes the risk that you will pay them (ie validate the transaction). These issuing banks get paid a fees (interchange fees).
So consumers are charged a credit card fees. Issuing bank gets an interchange fees for providing the guarentee that the person will pay. Then the rest of the fees goes to visa, who provides the statement, 24/7 support and troubleshooting

Bank rewards:
The more upmarket the rewards card, the more you’ll pay in interchange fees, in the form of credit card fees,  and the more profitable it is for the bank.

1. Banks and card issuers
2. Android and apple pay/ samsung pay
3. mobile platform for taking cards - merchants
How does visa make money? - Using the 'interchange' fees

If you had to change one thing about Visa?
-> create links of customers for better insights


Questions to ask?
1. Since visa has been there for a long time, and data science is a fairly new field, have you seen Visa make any change to its growth strategy based on the data?
2. How do you take care of security for so many people
3. Is there a way to tie people having visa card from separate banks?
4. some of the interesting projects that you have worked on
5. How is the team structured? Data Engineer, analyst, scientist?
6. Where do my responsibilties end?
