Q1. Give an example of a case in which you run an A/B test, test wins with significant p-value, but you still choose to not make the change?
A19. Sample size too low. bigger the sample size more is the statistical significance of a computed figure


Q2. What does statistical significance mean?
A20. Statistical significance means that there is less chance of sampling error affecting the mean differences. It comes from data and the confidence intervals.

	 Statistical significance means that there is a probability that a relationship between two variables exists.
	 A practical significance means that there exists a relationship between two variables in the real world.

Q3. Steps for A/B Testing?
A21. a. Find the business goal : to improve the website
	 b. Find the KPI used to measure this goal : what to measure, click through rate
	 c. Select the elements to test : two versions of the submit button
	 d. Design the test : mean/proportion, sample size, significance level
	 e. Divide population : stratified random etc
	 f. Let the test accumulate data : don't stop in between if significance level is reached
	 g. Document the results and implement the changes if needed

Q4. We ran an A/B test. Test won, so we make the change on the site for all users. But after waiting for some time, we realize that the new version of the site is not performing better than the old one. What could be the reason?
A4. a. One reason could be that the sample size was very low. If we start running an experiment on 'number of people opening the app B vs A'. Let us say that 10 people opened the app and the significance is reached (Ho rejected). We should not stop the experiment there, saying B > A, because 10 is a very small number. We should keep running the experiments till the predefined 'n' ie sample size is reached. This predefined 'n' can be based on the desired 'power' of the experiment.
    b. Other reason is using 1 tailed experiment when a two tailed was needed. Let us say we want to see if a new UI brings in more people. Ho: UI_B = UI_A, Ha: UI_B > UI_A. IF we reject Ho, it does not mean that UI_B > UI_A. UI_B can be even less than UI_A, because Ho only deals with UI_B = UI_A. So we need to conduct a two tailed experiment and then see which side A and B lie.

Q5. You are launching a messaging app. Define 2 metrics that you'd choose to monitor app performance during the first months. Why you chose them?
A5. a. Number of downloads
	b. Number of daily active users
	c. Virality : Using the source of download : # downloads where source is invite from another user/ # downloads
	d. Session interval
	e. Session length
	f. Retention 30 day

Q6. Dealing with missing values:
	Deletion vs Imputation:
	Deletion:
		Listwise : removes all data for an observation that has one or more missing values. This can produce bias in the data.
		Dropping missing variables
	Imputation:
		Standard problem : 
			Mean median or mode for continous data
			Logistic Regression on multilevel for categorical variable, KNN
		Timeseries problem:
			Without trend :	mean, median, mode, random imputation
			Trend, no seasonality : Linear interpolation (Regression)
			Trend and seasonality : Seasonal adjustment + Linear Interpolation (remove seasonlity -> regression -> bring back seasonality)

Q7. How to estimate value of a customer who lands to our page for the first time?
A7. Average customer value : 
		check the landing page from where they came : what is the avg conversion of that landing page  - (i)
		Bounce rate : percentage of customers who immediately leave the page - (ii)
		where did they go in the website, and avg conversion associated with each page from historic data - (iii)
		avg session duration : avg conversion attached to that - (iv)
		(i - ii + iii + iv) * (avg customer value overall from historic data)
		
Q8. Which variables are important to predict a fake listing on eBay?
A8. a. Feedback on seller
	b. changes in account activity
	c. sudden patterns in account activity
	d. listing characteristics - words, font etc
	e. acceptable payment methods
	f. selling from non-US to US market
	g. sometimes few, sometimes large items on sale
	h. selling multiple identical items.

	Decision tree, neural network, naive bayes

Q9. Explain the drawbacks of running an A/B test by market (i.e. all people in one market get version A of the site and another market version B)?
A9. Not random distribution of population. External factors might influence our experiment

Q10. How would you use data to evaluate if it makes sense to implement two-step authentication when users log in?
A10. Time taken to sign-in
	 Current ease of sign-in
	 Number of frauds in the data
	 User feedback

Q11. Each user on our site can be described by 100 continuous variables. What's the probability that a user is an outlier on at least one variable? 
A11. Binomial distribution. Probability of outlier in each variable = probability of sucess = p
	 probability that a user is an outlier on at least one variable -> 
	 	P(X >= 1) = 1 - P(X < 1) = 1 - P(X = 0) = 1 - 100C0*(P^0)*(1-P)^(100-0)

Q12. Describe one example of a classification problem where the cost of a false positive is way higher than false negative as well as the other way round?
A12. Where false positive is worse than false negative : finding someone guilty in trial
	 Where false negetive is worse than false positive : medical like cancer detection, HIV.

Q13. LinkedIn has launched its first version of the People You May Know Feature. How would you isolate the impact of the algorithm behind it w/o considering the UI change effect?
A13. A/A test to see if numbers generated are not at random. So 'People You May Know' might not be random.

Q14. How would you find out if someone put a fake school on LinkedIn? I.e. they actually didn't attend it
A14. Looking at clusters of others who attended that school to see if you can find any similarity between them.

Q15. You are supposed to run an A/B test for 3 weeks based on sample size calculation. But after 1 week, p-value is already significant with test winning. So your product manager pressures you to stop the test and declare it a winner. What would you tell her? Explain in layman's terms
A15. Flipping a biased coin with P(heads)=0.75 (simulated with 10,000 observations)
	 Ho : P = 0.75, Ha : P < 0.5
	 Let us say in the first 50 tries, the mean probability is 0.5. P-value is very low, so we reject the null hypothesis of 0.75. That does not mean that we should stop the experiment saying that the coin is not highly biased. As it is giving us the wrong results. So the experiment needs to keep running till 10,000 observations for us to make any conclusion.

Q16. What are the issues with splitting a small dataset (<1K events) in training/test set? What would you do then?
A16. Information might get lost while splitting a small dataset. If column 3 has values A,B,C and D. All the data points with value C goes to the test set. Then we will loose this information from training set. This will cause the model to loose that information.
	Use K-Fold cross validation instead.

Q17. Using LinkedIn data, how would you predict when someone is going to change job? Assume you can use all LinkedIn user activity data.
A17. Percentage increase in daily activity, Number of times linkedin is opened in a day, Percentage increase in weekly activity, Is the person coming on linkedin daily?, Number of messages sent, Are the messages sent to recuiter?, Number of times they open the 'Job' tab, Actual number of jobs applied to per week.

Q18. You ran an A/B test last year and it lost. When would it make sense to re-run the same test today?
A18. Yes, people and environment along with choices change all the time

Q19. What are the most important parameters in a Random Forest?
A19. a. max_features used to build individual trees : Gives equal opportunity to each feature. more options to consider
	 b. n_estimator : higher trees, better results but slower code. saturates after a point
	 c. min_sample_leaf : A smaller leaf makes the model more prone to capturing noise in train data.

Q20. In on-line gaming companies, do you expect the average revenue per user to be larger or smaller than the median revenue per user?
A20. Yes, data is very skewed. A really small percentage of people spend 100s of dollars vs many others who spend nothing.

Q21. How would you improve engagement on FB?
A21. a. Define engagement
	 b. Pick a metric to optimize
	 c. pick the variables you think would matter to move that metric. eg. age, sex, geography, device, landing page..
	 d. pick a model and data with 'engaged' as target variable
	 e. find features that influence the target variable
	 f. A/B the changes.

Q22. Difference between KPI and metrics?
A22. KPI is more high level and tells us more about the strategic business goal. eg. retention
	 metric is lower level and gives us exact formula to look for. eg metric for retention = (number of people staying after a month from today) / (number of people who joined today)

Q23. What are some key business metrics for (S-a-a-S startup | Retail bank | e-Commerce site)?
A23. SaaS : 
			customer lifetime value
			new accounts
			churn rate
			usage rate
			social share rate
	 Retail bank : 
	 		offline leads
	 		online leads
	 		number of accounts generated in different segments
	 		risk factors
	 eCommerce : 
	 		Click to buy rate
	 		Average value per customer
	 		Card abandon rates
	 		Email leads
	 		Conversion rate

Q24. How can you help marketing team be more efficient?
A24. Segment customers - clustering for each type of marketing campaign
	 NLP on social shares to understand the respect in market
	 Predict conversion probabilities based on user behavior on website and for more targetted ads



Q25. If a metrics is going X% down, what will you do?
A25. find segments of customers/users that this is coming from.
	 user segmentation using demographics, social status etc to narrow down and understand the customer segment better.
	 if the problem effects only a few segments, eg. retention of male adults from US has gone down, then step 2 is to look at possible sources of the decline. 
	 Eliminate external features like weather, social factors etc.
	 Narrow down on which feature of the product is causing the issue (eg. max dropout rate in a conversion funnel at Page 3)
	 Make a list of possible reasons (factors) for the decline and try to find if there is a change in one of the factors that influenced the other.
	 Try to make fixes

Q26. How would you measure the success or failure of a product feature?
A26. For each feature, what metrics are needed to measure the feature’s effectiveness relative to goal.
	 Create benchmarks (compare with competitors') for these metrics based on historical data

Q27. What is benchmarking metrics mean?
A27. a. Comparing metrics to industry best and best practices from other companies. Benchmarks are goals that we aim for.
	 b. Another use of benchmarks is to indicate a baseline or starting point. We gather information about where we are right now, and then set further goals building on that baseline or benchmark.

	 KPIs are used to quantify the benchmarks. They help in precise measurement for benchmarks
	 